.\"
.\" Epydoc graphical interface man page.
.\" $Id$
.\"
.TH EPYDOCGUI 1 
.SH NAME
epydocgui \- graphical interface to epydoc
.\" ================== SYNOPSIS ====================
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 10
.B epydocgui
.RI [ project.prj " | " modules ...]
.\" ================== DESCRIPTION ====================
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B epydocgui
is a graphical interface to epydoc, which generates API documentation
for Python modules and packages, based on their docstrings.  A
lightweight markup language called
.B epytext
can be used to format docstrings, and to add information about
specific fields, such as parameters and instance variables.
.PP
The API documentation produced by 
.B epydocgui
consists of a set of HTML files.  Two subdirectories are created for
the public and private documentation.  Within each subdirectories,
every class and module is documented in its own file.  An index file,
a trees file, and a help file are also created.  If you select the
.B frames
option, then a frames\-based table of contents is also produced.
.PP
This program will launch a GUI to get the modules to document. It can
be given an initial list of modules on the command lines, and project
files. Project files are saved from within the GUI.
.\" ================== OPTIONS ====================
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I project.prj
The name of a project file that was saved with
.BR epydocgui .
.TP
.IR modules ...
The list of the modules that should be documented.  Modules may be
specified using either filenames (such as
.BR epydoc/epytext.py )
or module names (such as
.BR os.path ).
The filename for a package is its
.B __init__.py
file.
.\" ================== HTML FILES ====================
.\" (this was copied from epydoc.1)
.SH HTML FILES
The API documentation produced by 
.B epydocgui
consists of the following files:
.RS 4
.TP
.IB module .html
The API documentation for a module.  
.I module
is the complete dotted name of the module, such as 
.B sys
or
.BR epydoc.epytext .
.TP
.IB class .html
The API documentation for a class, exception, or type.
.I class
is the complete dotted name of the class, such as
.B epydoc.epytext.Token
or
.BR array.ArrayType .
.TP
.B epydoc\-trees.html
The module and class hierarchies for the project.
.TP
.B epydoc\-index.html
The term index and identifier index for the project.
.TP
.B epydoc\-help.html
The help page for the project.  This page explains how to use and
navigate the webpage produced by epydoc.
.TP
.B epydoc\-frames.html
The frames index file.  This file defines three frames: two frames on
the left side of the window contain a table of contents, and the main
frame on the right side of the window contains documentation pages.
.B epydoc\-frames.html
is only generated if the
.B \-f
option is used to create a frames\-based table of contents.
.TP
.B epydoc\-toc.html
The top\-level table of contents page.  This page is displayed in the
upper\-left frame of
.BR epydoc\-frames.html ,
and provides links to
.B epydoc\-project\-toc.html
and the
.IB module \-mtoc.html
files.
.B epydoc\-toc.html
is only generated if the
.B \-f
option is used to create a frames\-based table of contents.
.TP
.B epydoc\-project\-toc.html
The table of contents for the entire project.  This page is displayed
in the lower\-left frame of
.BR epydoc\-frames.html ,
and provides links to every class, type, exception, function, and
variable defined by the project.
.B epydoc\-project\-toc.html
is only generated if the
.B \-f
option is used to create a frames\-based table of contents.
.TP
.IB module \-mtoc.html
The table of contents for a module.  This page is displayed in the
lower\-left frame of
.BR epydoc\-frames.html ,
and provides links to every class, type, exception, function, and
variable defined by the module.
.I module
is the complete dotted name of the module, such as 
.B sys
or
.BR epydoc.epytext .
.IB module \-mtoc.html
is only generated if the
.B \-f
option is used to create a frames\-based table of contents.
.TP
.B epydoc.css
The CSS stylesheet used to display all HTML pages.
.RE
.PP
By default,
.B epydoc
creates two subdirectories in the output directory:
.B public
and
.BR private .
Each directory contains all of the files specified above.
But if you select the
.B no private
option, then no subdirectories are created, and the public
documentation is written directly to the output directory.
.\" ================== AUTHOR ====================
.SH AUTHOR
Epydoc was written by Edward Loper.  This man page was originally
written by Moshe Zadka, and is currently maintained by Edward Loper.
.\" ================== BUGS ====================
.SH BUGS
Report bugs to <edloper@gradient.cis.upenn.edu>.
.\" ================== SEE ALSO ====================
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR epydoc (1)
.TP
.B The epydoc webpage
<http://epydoc.sourceforge.net>
.TP
.B The epytext markup language manual
<http://epydoc.sourceforge.net/epytext.html>
